hey guys this is ivan with overlook G&T
and in today's video we're working on a
simple track selector BAM alright so
actually I already reported this video
several days back and uploaded it and I
was planning on releasing it today
though I held back because i had a to
let's plays at terraria and the over
craft one actually good thing i didn't
do it because I tu 13 broke it which
also the fancy minecart station the card
calling system is also broken it seems
that the carts not only do they go
faster but they fall down faster so I'm
working on a fix for that but this one
had to actually fix it as well so good
thing I didn't actually release it
because then everybody would have been
like it doesn't work alright so this is
a simple concept obviously I'm talking
about a minecart station there's far
more complicated ways select a track or
a direction depending on where you want
to go so I try to think of a very very
simple way to do this for example now
let's change this for a button alright
so let's say you don't want to do a
minecart station you know it's not that
deep and you want to just kind of a pic
you know left right that kind of thing
okay you don't want to build a whole
minecart station for that but you want
something simple to do it obviously now
that the cards are faster even before
the cards you know got the speed boost
it was pretty hard to do now it's damn
near impossible so what you would do is
you would hit your button you're going
down to track you like I want to go the
other way and you know good luck
actually hitting that I or even figuring
out what direction it's facing on to
then make a choice now granted you could
potentially figure out your spacing on
powered rails so that you approach this
at a slower pace yes I mean it's it's
doable I guess but that means that
you're gonna have to lose momentum very
very early on to basically make a track
change see it's still very fast and I
missed it so my solution to this was a
rapid pollster system I saw a sea
tenants do something like this when I
was looking for a way you know to
simplify a mine
workstation although his system was
completely different it didn't work but
I got the general concept down which is
what this is now now the issue with
rapid pulsar's which if you see my you
know track duplicator I've used this in
a lot of different things the problem is
is that they lock up so for example as
you can tell you're I want to put a
sticky piston down and it's going to go
crazy you know that's what rapid pushers
do the problem is is that they do get
stuck as you can tell this one's broken
the way to reset these are for example
you can stick a button on it and turn it
on and off and it will reset it you can
put a lever and turn it on and off in
our cases we're dealing with mine carts
we're going to base we shoot a minecart
over a track detector and it's going to
turn it on and off activating the rabbit
pulsar the problem is is on the previous
video I had it right around here the
track the track the detector rail and it
had plenty of time to activate this on
and off the problem now is that these
cards go crazy fast so this is the track
the detector rail that will turn this on
and off in the event that it is broken
so regardless whether it's broken or not
it's going to work and it's going to
reactivate it at this point from track
detector to the block that has a
redstone torch underneath it it's about
18 blocks away it's really needed only
on the specific angle see I don't have
any on this side but depending on where
you built to just basically have a way
to turn it on and off so now what I'll
do is I'll show you this system so let's
say I want to go left or right I don't
know what direction it's on with this
you'll be able to tell because the rapid
pulsar will cause these powered rails to
come to a crawl you can make your change
now you're able to obviously run this
side of it as well into another
directional change now these ones are
too close again this was built prior to
213 so I won't even have time to turn
around and figure it out oh there we go
i did have time so that's it that this
is the general concept stick a
rapid pulse are on a section of track as
you go over that section it will you
know bring it to a crawl keep in mind
the detector rail system here is
optional you could run a lever all the
way to this specific block right here
for example knock this off if you like
just run a redstone line all the way
here have a lever all the way over there
and just flick it on and off to ensure
that it is now broken even if it's now
broken it will reactivate it if it is
broken it will reactivate it so it's
win-win beyond that you can put your
trust in the rapid pulsar if it's not
working though you're going to shoot
right past it there's not really a need
for a tutorial on this all it is is you
have your track that's it you have a
need for a slowdown and that is all you
do you put a rapid pulsar on a section
of track that gives you enough time to
come to it make a choice and even change
your mind so we'll do it one more time
show you guys it's not a fluke it's a
freaking system slows down I want to go
right there we go perfect again the
system here it is simply a detector rail
with redstone torch as you redstone dust
as you go over this it will activate
this reversing this basically going on
and off it runs all the way into what
was here a redstone torch on and off and
then this will turn on and off again how
you want to reset the system up to you
guys again if it gets locked up you can
do something as simple as running a line
to it from quite a ways away obviously
grabbing a lever for example and just
saying on off and it will reset it that
kind of is up to you guys like I said
this was a lot more condensed over here
until I t13 came out so yeah but this is
the simple track selector guys I hope
you liked the video especially now it
seems very useful because it does
completely bring your car to a halt but
enough time to figure out or even change
your mind about what direction you want
to go with awesome well I hope you guys
liked the video is always subscribe up
top and peace out